In this lecture, I'm going to show you how to convert vs code to a powerful
IDE by using an extension called python.
With this extension or plug in we get a number of features such as
linting which basically means analyzing our code for potential
errors. We also get debugging which involves
finding and fixing errors. We look at this layer in the course. We also
get autocompletion which basically helps us write code faster so
we don't have to type every character, we get code formatting which is
all about making our code clean and readable just like how we
format our articles, newspapers, books to make them clean
and readable. We get unit testing which involves writing a bunch of
tests for our code, we can run these tests in an automated
fashion to make sure our code is behaving correctly. And finally
we get code snippets, which are reusable code
blocks that we can quickly generate so we don't need to type them all by hand.
Now don't worry about memorizing any of these, as we go through the course you're going to learn
about these features. Now here in vs code on the left side
click this icon, this opens the extensions tab.
So these are the extensions that we can install in vs code to
bring in additional functionality. Here under the recommended tab you
can see the python extension, if you don't see this
simply type python here on the top and
here's the extension so go ahead and install this,
and then you will have to reload vs code.
Now here on the bottom right hand corner we can see this
message, linter pylint is not installed.
So as I told you before, linting is about finding potential errors in our code
linter is a program or a tool that analyzes
our code and finds these potential problems. Now for python,
there are several linters out there. Pylint is one of the most popular ones,
that this python extension uses by default. So we need to
go ahead and install pylint as well. Now to do this
first we need to change our python environment. So if you look here on the
bottom left corner you can see the current python that is used in vs code.
That is python 2.6.9 on my machine.
Chances are you see a different version here, so click here,
and in this list make sure to select python
3.7. So these changes are python
environment to python 3.7 and then we can install.
Pylint by clicking this button
okay pylint is installed, in the next lecture I will show
you how linting works.